INTERVIEW:

MEESHO:

1) How you increased disk volume if volume disk got full.
2) Diff bet NACL AND SecurityGroup.
3) How you set up https communication what step should needed.
4) Deep Down promethus:

		* How you manupulate metrices (Changes log pattern).
		* How we can create dashboard in graphna.
		* Did you set up monitoring in prod. env.
		* How to write promethus query.
		* How to creat an alert.
		* How k8s cluster know or fetch metrics.

5) If i have two hosted zone so you to make sure dns has been reslove in both end what was the steps. (Target Group).
6) If CPU memory is full so how you check what was the debug steps.
7) Retrive secind and third element in array without sorting.
8) Remove duplicate characted in an string.
9) Whats was the LB type and its use cases.
10) Did you do cloud migration from aws to gcp or any other.
11) How to connect Vnet-vpc.
12) How to implement retention policy.
13) Network flow in k8s.
14) How to set kibana, how fluented or other agent sent data to kibana.
15) If backend server have latency so what step you take for debugging that.
16) Which web server you used by configure LB.
17) How trigger HPA in cloud.
18) Nat GW and directly expose in internet what was the diffrence in that part.
19) Does nat gw is take inbond and outbond traffic.

Techdome:

1st Round: Techdrome: Cleared:

1) What you are use for Apigateway what is your role.
2) What was the strategy you used for taking db backup, and how you migrate db open-src to Azure DB.
3) Create Infra for 3 tier application with all security aspect.
4) How you manage traffic from frontend to backend for 10000 req.
5) What is Application gw in azure.
6) Fault tolerate
7) Key usage for multistage docker file in prod.
8) I create Docker file and on first line i return RUN api-update and second line i wirte RUN api-install nginx so does that is good apporch or bad.
9) Types of Network in Docker Image.
10) What is CSI (Container storage interface)
11) Taints & toleration in k8s.
12) Service as a LB & Ingress diffrence.
13) In k8s how to give access for NS.
14) Only user can access the log level.
15) How do we manage statefile.
16) Terraform WorkSpace.
17) Provisoner in Terraform.
18) Do you use script.
19) In linux what is LBS (Logical volume mount)
20) For Monitoring which tool you used.
21) Which pipeline tools you have used.
22) Did you work with WAF.
23) Share your screen and write down the k8s menifest file.
24) If my container got start after 2 min i didnt want my container run so what can i do.

Techdrome Final round:

1) What was your career objective and what you do for DevOps part.
2) What is your long term goal.
3) How Monitoring tools differ and tell me how we say that this is good tool.
4) New Relic Cost.
5) Open src alternate for new relic.
6) Does graphana, kibana and promethus are open src.
7) If we have outage how you can handel situation.
8) what is an zero trust env.
9) Security practices for devops not technology based core pratices only what we do.
10) penitration testing and penitration testing tools have you done before.
11) What is Terraform.
12) Write Terraform file, what was the first step you do for terraform.
13) Where you store in state file.
14) How you handels different env. in terraform.
15) How do you handel key vault usage in you team.
16) How to store and share secret.
17) How do you manage your day to day task.

CITI BANK: SRE Role & Automation:

1) What excite to work on this job.
2) Whats was your techncal strength.
3) what is your knowledge on graphana.
4) What are the diffrent SRE Stream you working on.
5) Technical walk through for automation and what tool are you using.
6) I need to generate automate report for every 4 hour that data should be extracte and share it in excel spread sheet attached to an email and share with team. (How do you convert data in spread sheet).
7) Structure logs and Structure logs.
8) How to you build Azure monitoring or AWS monitoring in graphana.
9) What data you extracting data from promethus.
10) WAF Log forwarding data.
11) I have a UI every day team go and logs in perfrom i funtion like restart application and check box say okay and then they go to database and run some query how do you automate this flow, what was your suggesation.
12) What is the three pillers of obsevability.
13) What are different data point in you opinion for creating a dashboard.
14) You are working with this company only 1 year why are you looking for a change. (No scope for growth).

IVY SRE3: Cleared:

1) Tell me about yourself:
2) what was are problem you are solving and share imp criteria and what you enjoy that part what was the problem.
3) Diffrence between apigateway and LB.
4) when we used ansible, terraform or automox whatever.
5) Can we peovision infra with automox or ansible.
6) Scripting is same in automox.
7) One team is going to cloud first time, helm k8s everything is done, their is an rest endpoint very simple website:
	A) what should LB they choose and why?
	B) how should they choice network lb and application lb any criteria?
	C) how should they choose which service type in k8s.
	D) Where we store a secret.
	E) The app is crashing, min. no. of pods is required, helm install got failed, what is the first thing you can check, you run k8s get pods and pods going to crashloopback   how you can debug.
	F) now pods is deploy apis call work, now you run curl req. and apis give timeout that was an external call what was your approch.
	G) Even before we deploy, we need to check security, they give blank VPC, so what was the security we need to configure how we design flow.
	H) How to make application fault tolarance and HA .. for database and other svc ... and when should we choose we go with managed service or open src.
	I) After deployment how we monitor service .. rest service any endpoint any unwanted call what we do.
	J) We need to design a single cost efficient logging, why choose mange open src.
	K) how the logs flow end to end design, push-pull logging, file system, how to fetch diffrent logs, how many data pattern data view. 	 
	L) how agent do a pulling.
	M) should the application container directly push the log or we need to do some modification.
	N) now we need to provide Error budget, SLO, SLI, SLA how should handle that approch and billing part.
	O) How we do error budgeting.
	P) we are giving docker file now what was the best practice look for docker file.
	Q) what was the bad practice for docker file.
	R) when we used telnet, and what was other cmd for debugging, and what protocol used by this cmds.

Gaming Creation:	
RNG: no. of generator, websocket, packet performance, TCP LB, Stickness for hitting same conn., unique no. random no., distributed service that should not overlapping.
Trading, NQGT protocol


Design System, Cost Budget.


IVY FINAL Half Recording:

Have you heard about obsevility work:
	We need to create 50 dashboard how you automate that task.
Deep down about SLA SLO SLI.	
What is kube-state metrics and what is the use for that metrics.
Have you heard about Pod discription budget.
what are k8s ingress.
Do you any exp. of writing docker file and wirte multistage file.
India
output
I=2 N=1 D=1 A=1
Have you heard about incident management.
Is any issue has been come so you you provide RCA, and how does SRE check that issue is not repeating.


StartUp: FineLabs Hyderabad
Cloud Migration VMWARE 
	
Intro ur self including you key stack.


Which cloud platform which you worked so far.
Have you work with VMWARE.
Automation part which tech you work.
Have you created alerting and what kind of dashbaord you created.
their is an issue which we found in logs how should you check apporch for debug that issue.
Assume that you seeing CPU and Memory utilization is high how you handel that apporch at peak hour.
Code level application changes how you do that.
Write troubleshooting cmd which you used.
Have you ever work in cloud migration, Live-Migration.
Have you ever work with multi-cloud migration.

Zenoti: Lead DevOps:

How do you configure centerlised logging.
Cost Optimization Activity.
How do you handel token in apigateway.
Coding:

arr = {a,b}

Now, create all the possible combination for password.

When 100 server is their in terraform and someone deleted 50 server so what happen? and the result what that?
What Happen when you apply terraform apply cmd?
Did you manage last scale database and how you manage database.
Robin and intrigrate with key vault.
count number of words in 50 html file search  string "devops".
What all deployment strategy you work on k8s and apart of k8s as well.
Their is an high traffic so as an devops lead how you handle that situation.
diffrent type of LB.
What networking set-up rule you define.
you developing a python application so how you manage internal or global pkg.
how you configuring waf rules.
have you set-up promethues, graphna and kibana.
have you have lead exp. or how many teams or members you handel.
Did you had any rating limiting in apigw.
Does apigw exposed customer outside or internally.
How do you monitor redis.
Looking for somebody who is good on scripting.


GoldMens Sach:


Have you intrigrate CI/CD Pipeline, What all the stages.
have you configure sonal qube for diffrent project.
what are metirices you capture in sonar qube.
is that 80% configure hardcoded for all project.
i have less than 80% code coverage so does pipeline got failed?
where did you provide a flag that stage is skip.
their are two project so in one project we need to skip and other project need to allow.
how this docker and k8s are diffrent.
what was the use of ingress and why we dont use LB.
did you ever face to deal with cred. in pipeline, service token or something like that.
one of the pods is not coming up so how you trouble shoot and due to this one pods so does pipeline got fail, how you handel this?
how do youb handle rolback.
you managed infra and what was the endpoint you used here & time here and how you optimized it 40%.
how do you reduce build faliure and reduce 40% of build falire.
how do you reduce deployment by 50%: progress line no. 3rd.
how do you reslove more that 80% alert.
String : "apple" count non repeating words in min. time complex.
What was the production issue are you face in your exp.
when you run ls -lrth cmd inside login in your vm but is their any way without logging you can run the cmd
If some file is missing so how you create some logging or something without logging how you slove this problem.

PayTM Second Round:

Tell ME about yourself.
Whats your Day to day task.
which k8s are you use.
how worker node communicate with slave node.
how to do worker node auto-scaling, and which tool or tech you used.
if you want to dettached worker node on the cluster how can we do that.
how external traffic enter into the cluster.
for deployment which ci/cd tools you used.
what was stages are their.
how you do canary deployment in argo cd
have you return helm chart
why need to define req cpu and req memory.
what will happend if they reveived their full memory, what will happend to the pods.
why you liveness and readiness probe.
are you using terraform, what is workspace in terraform.
what is state file.
what will happend if we lost state file.
why we used module.
can you write how we define module for ec2.
how many types for connectivity in aws.
have you used prometheus, graphna.
how promethus work.
for logging point of view which part you used.
have you used elastic search.

Ecosmobility: Mohali

1)  Introduce yourself.
2)  What is your current role, and how many members in your team.
3)  You have exp. in all of the cloud, what is your exp. all of the cloud.
4)  In azure what tools do you used till now.
5)  Do you know what was the responsibility for devops.
6)  What is the diff. bet CI & CD.
7)  What is the concept of gitops.
8)  BitBucket i push my code to bitbucket so does they deploy my code in k8s.
9)  What git tools you have used.
10) Can you tell me 2 big diff. bet. bitbucket, git, gitlab or any other git.
11) Why we consider jenkins as compare to others.
12) Have you done intrigration bet. jenkins to k8s.
13) What is the helm and why we used helm.
14) diffrence between yum and helm and similarity.
15) How can you design secure infra. with best security practices.
16) How can you ensure HA and DR.
17) How you manage the database and how you take replication.
18) As a SRE you need to take care of which thing.
19) what SLO you will consider.
20) My Azure billing going high, so how we can reduce cost.
21) You have a team for more than 30 people, how we can secure the credentials how to manage keep everything secure.
22) Being a devops you familar with CI/CD what tools you work on ... suppose their is a pipeline which is taking 40-45 min for deployment so would you have any suggesation to reduce a time.
23) why we consider trraform and  anisible what was the use cases.
24) developer team write a code you need to check quality of the code how you can make sure.
25) how can you check code coverage, what sonar get function.
26) when i should i used reverse proxy and proxy.
27) does apart of http or https traffic we can route traffic in other port.
28) I can use LB why we used revese proxy.
29) how many types of deployment stre. in k8s.
30) what is canary and green/blue deployment.
31) If i need to change service and that service running in prod env. so how you can proceed. 
32) where we can devide weightage.



Rakuten:

Write a shell script where passowrd should be 8 character and alpha numeric need to validate that.
how we can check the free disk: df -h (what is h stand of it).
How we can change the password of linux user.
What is build contex in docker.
what is layer in docker image.
how i can redunce the size of an images.
what is a distroless image.
what is user in docker file.
by default which network docker used.
how many type of docker network are their.
diffrence between bridge and overlay network.
suppose their are 4 worker node and u create a 5 pods i created deployment and set replica 5 and i am using bridge network so how communication established their.
write a docker file.
What the use for workdir.
copy vs add.
how i can mount my host machine path to container.
3 vms i have attached disk from one vm and how i can attached it with other.
how ww mount something 
disk is mount with device and i want to mount with other path how we can do.
how schuduler will work.
what kind of creteria schduler check.
what is noschedule.
nodeaffinity and nodeselector.
how we can apply nodeaffinity.
readiness vs liveness probe.
how we can connect acr.
replica set vs deployment.
how to apply helm chart.
how i can keep the history nd how i can preserve history.
helm unintall --perserve 
what is CRD
what is ingress.
how we will do the authentication not authrorization

ONIT:

1)  Introduce yourself.
2)  Have you work on system design part.
3)  Suppose i want to create HA Infra.
4)  With k8s suppose the pods is not their but deployment are their why it is.
5)  How would you configure healthcheck on pod yaml.
6)  Diff bet liveness and readiness.
7)  what happens if both of them is fail.
8)  Have you working on SLO define in your office.
9)  Can you share some senerio for SLO.
10) Who handel the incident.
11) Are you working on create a RCA and what was the standard of an RCA.
12) You have a SLO of 99.5 so is thier any dashboard by which we can monitor it.
13) I am getting lot of incident i need to reduce MTTR, so what you do.
14) do you have exp. on db.
15) your primary pods getting down so what you do.
16) your req. has been stuck and mysql getting high cpu what you do in that case.
17) one user have n no. of high con. so how you can kill query and reduce conn.
18) how you set-up horizontal scaling for mysql.
19) have you work with slow query, long running query.
20) statefull vs deployment including pvc.
21) best practices for writing deployment yaml.
22) what are pods distruption budget.
23) how do you set-up logging on k8s pods.
24) you are shipping a logs in elastic but that data is not shipping what you do.
25) ping vs nc -v vs telnet vs curl vs wget.
26) what 502, 5xx and 4xx.
27) what service is running in linux how you check.
28) how you get process id.
29) type of services in k8s and what was the use of it.
30) where is the ip attached for cluster ip.
31) what is the diff. bet. application and network lb.
32) diff between a NAT GW and internet gw.
33) do you know the working of NAT GW.
34) How do you storing secret.
35) Can you tell me about CI/CD pipeline what you done.
36) which os are you using right now.
37) You need to write script where need to find the disk usage and if disk utlization is high so it sent email.
 

EXTRA:

1) Your application on EC2 experiences traffic spikes only during business hours. How would you optimize cost and performance?
2) Your EC2 instance crashed unexpectedly. What steps would you take to identify the issue and restore service quickly?
3) You have deployed your app on EC2 instance. The app has to Fetch some images from internet but it's not able to fetch. What might be the possible issues ?
4) You accidentally deleted data from S3. How do you recover it?
5) How do you connect your on-premise data center to AWS?
6) | have 2 EC2 Instance in 2 VPC one in each. First one is running frontend app and second is running backend. These 2 app needs to communicate but they're not able to communicate. How will you fix this ?
7) I have an app running on EC2. Product icons are stored in S3 bucket which Needs to be shown on web home page. When my application is trying to fetch it's resulting into error. What might be the problem here ?
10) how to distribute 10 pods equally over 10 nodes in Kubernetes?
Like for log collecting metric beat, dynatrace agent etc
11) I have an app running on pod in EKS. Now I want to fetch this application using rinkirathore.com from browser. What kind of setup will you do ?
12) I have to create 10 identical EC2 Instances using Terraform.
What approach will you follow?
13) I have created a VPC manually. Now I have to create one EC2 instance using Terraform. How will you pass VPC id here in Terraform script?
14) You have provisioned a VPC using Terraform and someone deleted it manually. Now if you run Terraform apply, how will your pipeline behave?
15) | have 2 modules written one for VPC and second for EC2. EC2 modules need VPC id to provision. How will you ensure that EC2 module get VPC id at runtime?
16) Explain the stages you have written in your Jenkins pipeline.
17) I am trying to run one script file on my Linux server and getting permission error. How will you troubleshoot this ?
18) Linux server is experiencing slow performance.
How will you debug this slowness?
2) What are all backend services for Lambda?
I have deployed a frontend app on AWS EC2 but this EC2 is very slow.
How will you troubleshoot this ?
How will you launch public EC2 instance? Explain step by step.
How do you ensure that subnet is public or private?
Suppose you're experiencing storage issue for your EC2.
How will you troubleshoot this ?


Deloite:

1) If you have to provisioned new envionment and where you store source code.
2) If you define CI/CD and how you manage new client with same CI/CD.
3) In US region you need to create other resources.
4) If i have terraform code and i need to run only sigle or two module how i can do it.
5) same code would be run in same env.
6) have you set-up a cluster at starting.
7) i have two svc and i want sva a to call svc b.
8) i have single ns and svc is deploy on it so do i need apigatway or ingress or nginx what was the mandatory things.
9) if i have multiple ns so what we do.
10) can i have single ingress serving all the ns.
11) and do i need to use multiple controller for diffrent ns.
12) how many type of k8s svc.
13) when do you which svc.
14) Which all tools has been use for security vulnability and does that vulnability stage is not written in your pipeline.
15) If i put image into the jfrog we need to pass jfrog cred also where you passed it.
16) If you are using AKS how your image container pull the image.
17) How can you used secret.
18) If my cluster ingress proxy is configure and while i configure how i make sure traffic going to that particular proxy.
19) in your current project define me the way.

EPAM:

1) In terraform we want to build one vm, we need to pass vpc id subnet id via terraform we have all this id in azure so how we can get id without putting into statefile.
2) What is provisoner.
3) what is DRIFT.
4) If any vm is deleted at run time via UI how you can deal with that situation.
5) Did you used alias in terraform.
6) How you can multiple environment in terraform.
7) How you can create multiple vm with same config.
8) suppose you have 10 module in which you need to update 7 module so how you can do.
9) Did you know about life cycle in terraform.
10) Do you know what is dynamic block.
11) Do you know about local block or variable.

12) What is CHOWN and CHMOD.
13) Diffrence between softlink and hardlink.
14) If you need to see last 10 logs how you can do it.
15) without open you need to write some data into file.
16) how you can memory and cpu.
17) you need to fetch some particular field while using top like load average and how do you find load average.
18) How to check disk utilization
19) Do you know networking cmd.
20) Data backup strategy.

21) Which pipeline tools have you used so far.
22) What is shared libraries.
23) Let suppose you have two vms and some task is running and they need diffrennt package now how you can choose which pipeline run on which vm and how you can distributed this kind of things.
24) How you can take backup for jenkins.
25) Suppose in a single pipeline it have 3 stages and every stages will take more than 25 min how you can reduce this thing i want that stage run simultaneously.
26) How you can used pipeline in production.
27) How you can make sure that if pipeline got fail so it got rollback.

28) What was the deployment strategy you flow to make sure no down time has been occured.
29) What is sonarqube.
30) Have you work any vulnability level.

31) Let suppose you have multiple ips:
Input:
10.0.0.1
10.0.0.1
10.0.0.8
10.0.0.9
10.0.0.12
10.0.0.8

OutPut:
2 10.0.0.1
0 10.0.0.8
..
..

Likewise count.

32) You need to know what was the file size via shell how you can do.

33) Let suppose their are three headers 
PID CPU MEMORY

you need to print MEMORY.

34) what is shebang, do you about #! and all symbols which is used in shell.

35) Let suppose you need to provide azure blob to some customer publically for 2 hour after that it will not share publically how you can do.
36) Do you know about CDN, Azure Functions.

37) If pods kills so what was exits code and how exits code denote the reason for showing pods state.
38) How many probs are their in k8s.
39) Statefullset vs replicaset.
40) what is PDB.
41) what is CSI container and if i delete PVC so does PV is also created.
42) What is operator in k8s.
43) What do you understand by Ingress.
44) diffrence between k8s services, LB, Ingress.
45) What is headless services in k8s.
46) Do you know ISTIO and what is envoy proxy.
47) Do you work with genAI.

48) What are the azure services you have used.
49) How you enable DDos.
50) what is Azure Resource Manager.
51) What is ExpressRoute.

Kombee

1) Design stages for java micro services.
2) Deployment strategy 
3) How do you used terraform in your env.
4) write jenkins pipeline
5) write terraform script for creating vm and database
6) Migration docker compose to azure aks
7) How do you configure azure front door
8) Only in 4 region my app should be accessible but apart of that other region its restricted
9) What was DR stretegy in AZURE in multiple region.
10) How do you ensure HA for database.
11) how do you setup monitoring.
12) CPU utlization going in more than 90%
13) k8s architecture
14) replica vs sts
15) how many type of HPA is their.
16) How do you manage secret.
17) How do you manage statefile.
18) How do you create 3 tier application.

Blue Younder

1) Brief you exp.
2) which vcs.
3) how do you handel github.
4) How do you handel merge conflict
5) Have you used jenkins
6) How to revert the images and if image got fail so how you handel it.
7) Docker cmd
8) how do you handel username and password in terraform.
9) what are scripting language is work on.
10) How terraform talk to azure.
11) What is taints cmd in terraform.


